Digital Eye Strain (DES), also reffered to as Computer Vision Syndrome (CVS), occurs when you look at a screen for prolonged periods. People who work jobs that require a lot of screen usage, such as a programmer, data entry clerk or administrators, are at a higher risk of feeling the ill effects of DES. Symptoms can include tired, burning or dry eyes, tearing, light sensitivity, blurred or double vision and trouble focusing at objects in the distance.

Digital Eye Strain (DES) can be 'treated' in a few ways. The first is to treat the symptoms which could involve making use of eye drops to lessen the discomfort caused by dry eyes. You can also try to prevent it entirely by attempting the following. Ensure that when using a screen that the room you are in is adequately lit to match the brightness of the screen. Additionally, you can follow the 20/20/20 rule which states to look at an object 20ft (or around 6m) away for 20 seconds every twenty minutes while using a screen.

Sleep is an important aspect to your physical health. It is important to get enough each night for your respective age range. The use of technology could potentially hinder getting adequate sleep. Screens emit blue light which may disrupt your sleeping schedule. Your exposure to it should be limited towards the end of a day. This can be accomplished by using blue light filtering glasses or downloading applications on your phone or computer that can lower the amount of blue light. However, blue light may not have an effect on everyone and you could be fine without avoiding or lessening it, but it is advised to try nonetheless.

While using a computer or smartphone may not be that physically taxing, it can still take a toll on your body. This is usually a result of bad posture or habits while using these devices. The most common pain arises in the form neck, shoulder, back and wrist pain. These types of pain can come about for many reasons such as hunching over while at a desk, prolonged typing on a phone, bad placement of screens, prolonged looking down at a phone. The type of pain usually manifests as muscle tenderness or a dull pain in the respective areas.

It is important to take measures to reduce the chance of requiring a medical diagnosis for any kinds of physical pain resulting from technology use. A good first practice to begin is to take regular stretching, or similar physical activity, breaks while sitting at a desk. These should be taken around every 30 minutes and you should not sit longer than 60 minutes.  It is also important to ensure your work environment is set up so that you do not need to strain yourself to use any item be it screen, keyboard or mouse. This means having your screens at an appropriate level so you are not looking up or down at at them or making use of your chair's armrests or using another type of forearm support. Also, ensure your keyboard is not too much higher than your elbows. Research into this has resulted in some very specific angles to keep in mind. Keep you elbow above 121°, your shoulder below 35° and your hand less than 20°. 