People can overuse the internet in a very negative way. Sometimes it turns into an addiction. This painting shows a few abstractions of ways you can identify such an addiction but for clarity this note will explain some of them. 1. As with most addictions, the person may have withdrawal symptoms when not using the internet. 2. Loss of self-control and an urge to use the internet. 3. A loss of interest in other hobbies. 4. Using the internet as a means of escape as to act as a relief for a negative mood. While this list, and painting is not exhaustive of the criteria, it is important to know that the severity of this can also vary.

This painting is a combination of multiple lines on each side with some crossing over from one side to the next to symbolise the importance of creating boundaries. The world we live in allows for communication with anyone in an instant. This is a good thing for most but does have a downside. Since we can communicate like this it is difficult for some to fully separate from work and continue working at home. This can cause issues in our personal and professional lives due to the stress it causes. As such it is important that we set up clear boundaries as they help separate the two and reduce stress.

Technology has allowed for information about current events to reach us in almost real-time as depicted by the trail left by the focus of this painting. One issue this causes is that people will begin to "Doom-scroll" in an attempt to gather as much information possible on negative events to forever know what is happening and how they can protect themselves. This can often lead to feelings of depression, anxiety, stress and just generally lower your wellbeing which it is important to avoid this. You can avoid the news online; you will likely be kept in the loop by those around you.

This is the first half of a larger painting. It is meant to help people understand the how to disconnect. There is a concept called "digital detoxing" which entails disconnecting yourself from technology and the internet. This is often done by disconnecting from devices, or from specific applications or from certain features or feeds. It can also be for a short while or during specific times of strife, but it is important to know that an all-out approach may not be an option to some as they require technology or the internet for their jobs.  It is important to know that whatever combination of severity and length will be different for everybody.

This is the second half of a larger painting. It is meant to help people understand the importance of disconnecting. Leaving a social media platform or not using your phone for some period of time is actually beneficial. You won’t be bombarded by constant news or information and will feel less overwhelmed letting you rest easier and have a better peace of mind. You will have more time for your hobbies, will be able to focus on your tasks and work better and be able to avoid distractions. Everyone is different and you must be aware that leaving technology and the internet alone for a while might not bring you these benefits and as such you should find what works for you.