If you have an account on the internet, you are using a password. This is what makes sure only you can use that account. You should also make your passwords "strong" as attackers can try to guess them with dictionaries of common words. One way to make a strong password is to take a phrase you will easily remember and turn it into the password by taking the first letter of each word and include the punctuation. You should avoid song lyrics though. You could take "My friend, Digibot, is so SO COOL!" and make it "Mf,D,isSC!". Also, making your passwords longer is a good idea, and including both uppercase and lowercase letters with punctuation is good to! So stop using "password" and start using something like "72Gye,!yeY?B73"

Phishing is an attack that targets people as they can give crucial information away that would be more difficult to get from hacking a system. These attacks can come in the form of emails, SMSs, social media messages or even websites so be vigilant! Typically, they want to get a hold of your account information or banking details but can also get you to download malware.

Phishing, while varied, can be identified by you! It is also important to know how to do this as the automated systems in place to catch these sometimes miss a few. The first thing to look out for is that they are trying to get you to rush to do something. They may claim to be your bank and say that your account is suspended so click on this link to fix it. While they try to impersonate legitimate businesses or people, they do not have the proper accounts. This means the account they will be using, be it email or social media, will likely be misspelled, contain extra letters, or very sneakily switch some letters.  For example, if someone were to impersonate Digibot, they would try an account like Diigibot or Digib0t or Digib6t. All of those, at a glance might fool you but once you take a second, it is clearly a fake.

Malware is software that aims to cause havoc on a computer and the files on it. These programmes can do it in many ways, such as making a computer unusable, stealing your data or just deleting random files. Ransomware is the one that makes you pay to use your computer again. Spyware is on your computer stealing your data, information and can even see what you are typing in some cases. While those are just two types, there are still many many more.

Malware is all over the internet but luckily you can protect yourself against it. The best way to do so if you are not too tech savvy is to use an anti-virus program which will scan your computer or phone and let you know if you have any malware and even get rid of it for you. Also, you should know what malware looks like. Since these are programs, they are likely to be files that end with ".exe" but not all files that end like that are malware. The difference is where you get it from. You should never use a file like that if it comes from somebody you do not know.  Also, if you are downloading one from a website, always check that the website is correct and it is not slightly different. Look for the link having extra numbers or letters that should not be there or not being the right domain, like ".com".
