Question 1: 
Which of these is NOT a way to make a strong password?
(i)  Using your birthday and name (Correct)
(ii)  Turning a sentence into a password
(iii)  Add punctuation to a password
(iv)  Make a long password
If incorrect: Using information that people maybe able to find out about you is not a good idea.


Question 2: 
Which of the following is the stronger password?
(i)  P@5sW0rD (Correct)
(ii)  password
(iii)  1234password
(iv)  23password!
If incorrect: While all the options can be uncovered by an attacker, P@5sW0rD is the stronger of the bunch as it requires more effort.


Question 3: 
What would "Whispers of twilight linger, shadows dance beneath the Moon!" look like as a password?
(i)  Wotl,sdbtM! (Correct)
(ii)  wotlsdbtm
(iii)  whistwillingshaddanbenmoon
(iv)  wotlsdbtm!
If incorrect: Using a sentence as a password means including all of the capitalisation and punctuation!


Question 4: 
What should you try when setting up a password?
(i)  Utilizing the first letter of each word in sentence (Correct)
(ii)  Using common song lyrics as password phrases
(iii)  Including only lowercase letters and numbers in the password
(iv)  Keep it short to make them easier to remember
If incorrect: Using a sentence to set up a password is a good way to make a password strong against dictionary attacks.


Question 5: 
Which of the following would make a good sentence for a password?
(i)  "I can do anything? Even shuffle all the cards!" (Correct)
(ii)  "May the force be with you."
(iii)  "You’re a wizard, Harry!"
(iv)  "Somebody once told me, the world is gonna roll me."
If incorrect: The choice of sentence for a password should be memorable like these, but it shouldn’t be something popular like a song or movie quote.


Question 6: 
Which of the following is a characteristic of phishing attacks?
(i)  Targeting individuals to obtain sensitive information (Correct)
(ii)  Targeting only computer systems
(iii)  Typically involving physical intrusion
(iv)  Exclusively conducted through social media platforms
If incorrect: Phishing attacks target people and are done through a wide array of places such as email, SMSs or social media.


Question 7: 
Which is not a common way through which phishing attacks may occur?
(i)  Physical letters (Correct)
(ii)  Email
(iii)  SMSs
(iv)  Web pages
If incorrect: Due the how quickly, and how automated, phishing attacks can be done, sending a message through email or SMS, or even creating a fake website, is most common.


Question 8: 
What is NOT a way to spot a phishing link or account?
(i)  Looking for a business you know (Correct)
(ii)  Misspelling in the account name.
(iii)  Extra letters where there shouldn’t be
(iv)  Switching letters for other letters or numbers
If incorrect: Spelling mistakes, extra letters and switched or swapped characters are common ways used to impersonate an account. If you look for a business name you know, the link may still be bad. For Example, while google.suport@email.com looks legitimate, such a google account would use gmail.com as the domain and has misspelled support.


Question 9: 
How can phishing attempts often be identified?
(i)  They may exhibit signs of rushing the recipient (Correct)
(ii)  They always come from a businesses
(iii)  They are impossible to detect
(iv)  They are exclusively caught by automated systems
If incorrect: Remember, automated systems may miss some phishing attempts and attackers can also impersonate people, not only businesses. They also try to rush you and have questionable account names imitating legitimate ones.


Question 10: 
Which of the following is NOT an aim of phishing?
(i)  To provide you with free software (Correct)
(ii)  To get you personal information
(iii)  To gain access to one of your accounts
(iv)  To get you to download malware
If incorrect: Phishing attempts aim to get your information, account and password or to download malware. Providing you with free software may be the claim made in a phishing attack, but it is not an aim.


Question 11: 
You get an email from your friend, Digibot, through your school emails. Which of the following emails would you trust?
(i)  Digibot@school.edu (Correct)
(ii)  Digibot@schoo1.edu
(iii)  Digiboot@school.edu
(iv)  Digibot@school.com
If incorrect: Always be vigilant for accounts adding extra letters, "Digiboot", using a different domain, "school.com". or swapping out letters, "schoo1". While these a could be blatant, swapping out an lower case L for an upper case i might be difficult to see. 


Question 12: 
What is the primary purpose of ransomware?
(i)  To demand payment for regaining access to the computer (Correct)
(ii)  To render a computer unusable
(iii)  To delete random files
(iv)  To steal sensitive data
If incorrect: While ransomware does make a computer unusable, the main goal of it is to get payment from a victim.


Question 13: 
What is a common function of spyware?
(i)  Stealing data and monitoring user activity (Correct)
(ii)  Making a computer unusable
(iii)  Deleting random files
(iv)  Encrypting files and demanding ransom
If incorrect: Spyware is made to spy on you, see what you are doing and access information and send it to the attacker.


Question 14: 
What caution should individuals exercise when downloading files from the internet?
(i)  Only download files from known and trusted sources (Correct)
(ii)  Ignore the source of the file if it looks legitimate
(iii)  Avoid files with extensions like ".exe" altogether
(iv)  Always share downloaded files with others for verification
If incorrect: Files downloaded online should only come from a known and trusted source. You can’t ignore all exe files as some are legitimate and you should never send files you are suspicious of to others and rather delete them.


Question 15: 
Why is it advised to be cautious when downloading files with the ".exe" extension?
(i)  Because the source of the file matters (Correct)
(ii)  Because all files with ".exe" extension are malware
(iii)  Because ".exe" files are harmless and should be freely downloaded
(iv)  Because ".exe" files are exclusive to malicious websites
If incorrect: A file being an exe file is not enough to call it malware, where it comes from is an important factor to consider.

